hey pilot welcome to ready for push back
after hours I'm Nick fiela you're
joining me today with a special guest
Justin Ritter director of hiring from
United Airlines we're happy to have him
today first off 1500 plus people here
tonight what a big opportunity for
everybody to just listen and dive deep
we're thankful we're grateful that you
guys are here tonight it's going to be a
lot of fun we're going to answer your
questions uh the first thing I want to
do is tell you that if you are going to
interview with United you have to be on
your aame you have to be prepared Justin
and his team they see thousands and
thousands of Pilots every single year
and a lot of them go away empty-handed
and I'll tell you what don't put
yourself in that position your career is
worth a lot more than that and so I want
you to join the Spitfire community I'm
going to put up a coupon code right now
for you and this coupon code is going to
give you 15% off uh for our services you
can use it until March 6 at midnight so
that's when it expires right so write
that down that is really important
you'll be able to join the Spitfire
Community you'll be able to understand
all the academics of how we do interview
prep we're never going to teach you what
to say but we will teach you how to get
points on the board and every word you
say every choice that you make has
impact and it's important so if you want
to join our team right there there's
your code we usually uh only do a 10%
discount so special night tonight yall
get a 15% discount so that's a great
thing next we always give back we are
focused on always always always making
sure that we can do more to provide more
to you the pilot and the first thing
that we are doing is our webinar series
and so check this out even tonight we
have a my buddy Jason's going to be
doing a webinar tonight you can grab
that QR code grab that with your phone
uh if you would like to sign up for
tonight's webinar it's all focused on
preparing for the women and Aviation
conference coming up in Denver right
around the corner just about two weeks
away uh we have a lot of webinars that
we do consistently and y'all are
crushing so go ahead um grab that
QR code right there and you can sign up
for free webinars our teams are awesome
uh they answer tons of questions that
just help you get ready help you get
focused make sure that you are on your
aame all right so that's that and you
always always want to know where to find
the the pilots that are hiring what
airlines are are hiring how can I get a
job everybody's looking it always seems
like we're in tight situation this year
2025 a lot of people are having
difficulty finding those jobs and those
pilot jobs are easier to get when you
network and they are they are um there
are conferences that we have multiple
times a year here's our conference list
for this year uh Spitfire is uh is a big
sponsor of all of these different
organizations you will see our teams
there and you know grab a screenshot of
that because it is really important to
be able to show up at these conference
is get in front of the recruiters get
your networking game sharp and this is
how you do it uh it's a great time to
meet up it's a great time to meet those
recruiters but it's also a great time to
meet other Pilots that are just like you
that have the same kind of concerns the
same kind of life goals the same kind of
excitement those are the people that win
and so we'll see you there uh so I think
that's it as far as the pregame goes I'm
getting ready to bring my man Justin
Ritter out here the he's director of
hiring at United and we are G to ask
some questions I've got a list of
questions that I'm GNA start off with
that are going to kind of prime the pump
but there's a Q&A box there on your
screen and you guys can take those
questions and drop them into the Q&A as
you guys drop things into the Q&A um I
as you guys drop things in the Q&A I
will go through and pull them out ask
them to Justin and you will get
firsthand knowledge like right from
Justin so uh without further Ado my man
Justin Ritter are you in the house how
are you buddy I'm doing great how are
you Nick good to see you I'm doing great
uh it's good to see you my man it's a
great day here in Denver here at United
Airlines today we are doing interviews
we are uh going through our regular
process for uh hopefully some new pilot
hires here today so uh just a great day
in Denver um are you get how many how
many people did you guys interview today
uh I believe we had 23 today big number
the team has got to be doing a lot um
now I would love for you to kind of set
the stage everybody every time I get on
social media there's like a hot take
about hiring at United everybody you
know stuff's left stuff's right they're
hiring a million Pilots they're hiring
no Pilots there's uh there's chaos can
you help just just level the playing
field what do you know how can what can
you tell the pilots
absolutely no great question thanks for
letting me share and kind of dispel some
of these myths as well um the first
highlight is that number one United is
still hiring Pilots this year we're
expecting to hire quite a few Pilots
this year we're looking to hire quite a
bit of Pilots next year and we believe
that hiring will be robust uh in in the
pilot space at least for the next five
or so plus years um now that's not to
say though that we're going to be hiring
the same volumes as we were in 2022 2023
as well uh you know the the industry has
changed the the delivery of aircraft has
been difficult recently um and so it's
it's going to be a different environment
than it was in years past but without
that you know kind of dispel some of the
rumors and the myth I just got out of a
meeting when we talked about our hiring
projections for the rest of the year and
we're looking at hiring at least well
over 1,200 Pilots this year um which is
still a very large number of pilots and
and even if you were to think back to
pre-co times if we talked about hiring
00 Pilots That's a huge number of Pilots
so uh you know we're very happy we're
very pleased with the growth at United
we're really excited about what we have
coming up and uh you know there's still
lots of opportunity here at United talk
to me with 1,200 Pilots for the year and
so many Pilots trying to get jobs you've
you've just got to have such high such
high numbers like what does the average
pilot coming in look for like look look
like can you describe kind of the the
resume of that pilot absolutely yeah
that's a really good question so again I
think with United being one of the only
carriers that's actively hiring at such
large volumes um we have become uh
really competitive uh more so than we
were particularly in in you know years
past and so what I think about when I
think about a competitive applicant is a
few things I think number one is that
having good quality flight time is
always going to be important so that is
you know good turbine time that is
having pic time flying complex aircraft
is going to be important for us um we
also very much value individuals who
have flown as either captains or
commanders or leaders on board their
aircraft that is that is something that
we've seen separates uh candidates from
the rest of the pack um and then we also
look for individuals who are just good
social stewards as well um I I truly
believe that even if you have 151 hours
and you got your your ATP it's
unrestricted it's fresh ready to go you
should be submitting your application to
United Airlines um I know that there you
know even if it's got more competitive
and we are looking for individuals with
more competitive time more competitive
experience it does not mean that we have
not hired anyone with 153 hours we have
we have done so recently we've also
hired someone that had 24,000 hours
recently as well so having somewhere in
that range is going to be important and
it's going to be competitive what is the
differen maker for 1500 and 3 hour
typically those individuals with the
lower hours are those that are coming
directly from the military um
individuals who've been flying Fighters
or um attack aircraft in the
military that's what we're typically
seeing at that lower end of the the
Spectrum got
it what about people coming in that are
are still younger that are building time
uh that that are just at that 1500 hour
mark is a lot of the questions I get are
should I go to a part 135 carrier or
should I go to a regional airline does
is there any difference in like 121
versus 135 as far as like the hiring
team's concerned from our concern no my
best recommendation would be go where
anywhere you can get ours right if you
if that's a 135 carrier or if that's a
regional wherever you can get out those
hours wherever you can build that time
and hopefully uh upgrade to a captain
position you should be going to that
carrier okay how about this I have been
speaking with a ton of Pilots at FedEx
and they're they're not hiring people
people saw the saw the carrot in front
of them jumped over all the hiring
stopped and now they just feel stuck
there's reduced hour lines and all sorts
of things but the the FedEx Pilots some
of them are getting a little antsy some
of them are really interested in in
coming to uh United so if somebody if
somebody had a um had an interview with
United before and chose not to uh accept
a class date would that uh professional
pilot be uh be kind of welcome back or
is it kind of one you had your
shot oh no we would certainly welcome
them back I think going to an airline uh
or a carrier like FedEx is exceptional
experience complex aircraft flying in a
difficult regulatory environment um we
would very much be interested in in any
Fedex pilot who decides to apply to
United even if they have uh turned down
once before all right how about if they
were a a United pilot and and left the
seniority
list so interestingly enough we have
actually seen that happen I believe at
least five times in the last year or so
individuals who have left United gone to
particularly FedEx or UPS and have now
made their way back to united we welcome
them with open arms all right how about
that man that's awesome um okay how
about this okay a pilot who is is
currently at a regional and maybe
they're maybe they're at something like
Sky West and there there's a possibility
to flow to United um but then they they
get a job at uh like Frontier or some
other some other part one 121 carrier if
they were previously in the flow is
there any moratorium on hiring them or
is there opportunity is there a cooling
off period how do you guys handle
that so it does Depend and there's a
difference between carrier and program
as well in the aviate program for
example if you're at one of our UA X3
carriers such as gojet commer or Mesa
and you decided to go to a frontier or
an aviate or Allegiance excuse me uh you
must wait one year from the date that
you left that carrier before you can
reapply uh at United and try and join uh
that way now that is a possibility and
we have seen people make that jump but I
do caution that when you leave aviate
you you are leaving that cjo right you
have a cjo to come to United Airlines
once you meet the requirements at the
uxx carrier if you're to leave the ux
carrier you're forfeiting that cgo and
taking a risk by going to another
carrier and if you come back and you
interview and you're unsuccessful in
that interview you will not be able to
come work at United Airlines um because
you will have us your opportunities okay
so that you it's basically two swings of
the bat you you have two two chances so
if I if I've interviewed once on the off
the street and I did not get uh a cjo
then there might be another opportunity
but if i' if I failed it twice that's it
that's correct that's a current policy y
okay okay that's cool that makes sense
how about recency that that to me is one
of the things that's becoming more and
more prevalent this year is people are
people are especially leaving the
military they're they're trying to get
the opportunity they're they're applying
and maybe they're not maybe they don't
have a job just yet as they're leaving
the military and they're scrambling to
try to find some way to keep
flying what first off what are the
recenty um requirements and then if you
are staying staying current flying a
plane is assass okay do I need to rent
uh some kind of uh light twin what what
is the policy yeah excellent question so
and particularly right now at some of
our other competing carriers Pilots are
just not getting hours and so they're
getting concerned about their their
recency and that is certainly concern
and something that we we keep top of
mind as well here at United um we have
no recency requirement we have recency
preferences and so we preference that a
civilian pilot has at least 100 hours of
recency in the last 12 Rolling months so
if today's you know March 5th then
within March 5th 2024 you should have
about a 100 hours or so um of recency
but again that is only a preference and
there is obviously wiggle rim to that as
well if you had you know only 89 hours
but you're a pilot at Spirit you're not
being able to get hours because of um
you know the Block hours have fallen
there or or something that that's
something that we take in consideration
as well um for the military it's a
little bit different our preference is
that you must have at least 20 hours of
recency in the last 12 Rolling months um
but again that does not mean 12 20 hours
excuse me in a F-16 or an Air Force 2
that means you should have about you
know 20 hours in any in any aircraft it
could be assass 172 or could be a
C130 does a typ rating restart that
currency that recency as well it does
not no okay the military especially
getting out my if you have a desk job
and and it's the last three years of
your career like sorting that out that's
that is such a difficult thing I I can't
tell you how many people I talk to that
are you know have so many hours and
they're they're wildly successful and
that some o5 or 06 and now they're
they're done with their staff job and
and feel like they're out in the breeze
so that's good to know absolutely and I
will say to that too we've had some
really exceptional candidates come
through here recently in the last year
or two who were high ranking in the
military had a desk job you know it
hadn't flown very often maybe two or
three or four hours every year um and
have been able to come to United get got
hired and have been extremely successful
here so certainly something that we we
we take in consideration as well
which is why it's not a requirement
right this is why we keep it at a
preference to give us that flexibility
do you think that going to one of the
conferences and and seeing your
Recruiters in person is a great way to
differentiate
yourself I yes absolutely I think it's a
great way to meet the United Team to
meet the individuals who will review
your application to meet and speak with
our pilots and get an idea about what
life is like at United as a pilot here
so I think it's a really great
opportunity now we had someone that
asked a question uh when we were at ngpa
a couple weeks ago that said they raised
their hand and said hey I've heard on
the gouge that I need to go to every
seven conference and meet United at
every one of those conferences to even
be considered and I wanted to Spill the
myth that is not true we do not require
you to come to every single conference
we did not require you to meet us every
single time um I think it's beneficial
for you but it's certainly not a
requirement I think that you should tell
them just to go ahead and listen to the
r for push back podcast and then you
just get like 80% less questions I will
tell them that next that's a really good
idea yeah that's what I'm talking about
um okay here's an interesting question
kind of circleing back to the FedEx and
United or UPS and that a lot of or any
of the ACMI carriers a lot of the Long
Haul flights have three or four Pilots
if I'm building my application how do I
count that time do I just count it from
Block in to block out do I count it do I
have to like okay there are three Pilots
so I should reduce it by oneir what does
what is the right formula
yeah block and block out that's what we
consider it as perfect man that makes it
so much easier Lord have mercy no weird
equations nothing you have to do with
that yeah block and block out okay so
what does a currently a new higher class
what are your percentages between the
flows military people and civilian
straight
civilian really good question and it
depends month to month and I think one
thing that I I want to share is that in
the past couple of years probably to
2024 uh we were hiring consistently the
same number of Pilots every single month
throughout the entire year and so for
example if we had to hire you know 2400
pilots in
2020 um three for example we hired about
200 Pilots every single month um however
that has changed this year because we
have a much different system in which we
are hiring Pilots for when we need them
so right now in January February March
and April for example these are really
really really high hiring months for us
because they're going to be supporting
our summer schedule now June July August
we will still be hiring Pilots but
probably at a much smaller number
because we don't need to have a whole
bunch of pilots on property for um
September October November time frame
when seems to be a little bit lower uh
for Block hours so what that means is
that that percentage changes every
single month um we have seen a a large
percentage of umpp or United military
pilot program Pilots that are coming in
through our hiring in in in these last
few months so they've made up a
substantial percentage of our hiring but
they have not made up a majority and so
it's a pretty good split among all of
the different uh programs that we have
um while we're talking with Justin um
while he's answered these questions I
know that you guys are really focused
and everybody's got um very specific
questions the the thing I will tell you
the best thing that you can do is be
consistent and and build your network as
you go um if you guys haven't already
connected with me on LinkedIn that is a
great place to start uh cleaning up your
LinkedIn profile make sure making sure
that it's legit you've got a good
picture if you want some kind of good
background to put up there some kind of
good information about yourself just go
over to mine and grab it copy paste it
stick it in uh stick it on yours and and
adjust the adjust the uh the wording
however you want uh that's you know no
need to recreate the wheel on that your
LinkedIn profile believe it or not it's
a great way to um to build the uh your
community as well as as engage with
other uh other uh aviators and
recruiters and stuff like that and
that's really what I see uh a lot
happening right now are people engaging
day in and day out uh and and being able
to kind of move the ball forward I just
spoke with somebody um I just spoke with
somebody the other day um who got a cjo
based on a LinkedIn uh message that they
uh they had worked on and uh so
definitely great opportunity one of the
other things I want to do is uh talk
about this platform we on right now
we're using Vimeo and the reason we're
using Vimeo is because obap has allowed
us to the organization of black
Aerospace professionals one of our
favorite organizations um they are
really really focused on helping Pilots
helping people um helping people grow
helping people understand that the
aviation industry is for everybody and
they're a big big part of our Spitfire
life so thank you to obap and all the
people there uh if you guys want to hear
a cool podcast the United Airlines Union
podcast just did a uh a couple episodes
with some of the uh obap leadership it's
super awesome listen let's see back at
it because I do want to jump into some
of the questions for um that the
listeners have put in we've been going
for about 25 minutes and so I'm gonna
question number one comes out and it
says uh what is the outlook for military
pilots in the traditional applicant pool
will there be any demographic uh space
at at United for military folks who are
not umpp eligible will military uh
Pilots uh pilot and command time be
looked at all compar comparatively to
121 pic for civilian applicants
excellent question and thank you to
Anonymous for asking it uh the answer is
100% yes there is plenty of space for
really well-qualified military Pilots
through our traditional Pathways umpp
was designed to give that security to
individuals who are uh separating from
the military at a future date so they
when they separate they know that they
have a place and a home here at United
um but it doesn't work out for everyone
right timing doesn't isn't always going
to be perfect uh but yes we we've D many
Pilots through our traditional pathway
uh program uh that have come from the
military and they've been exceptional
Pilots talk to me about v22 Pilots uh do
you accept v22 time do you not accept it
uh where do we
stand I love that question and I'm I
I've been prepped for that so I knew
that was going to come uh so the v22 is
a very unique aircraft um in fact when I
was watching the Super Bowl I saw a
bunch of v-22s flying over the uh the
super do New Orleans I was like oh I
know all about that aircraft now um so
what's really interesting about the v22
is that it is a powerlift aircraft right
and in the way that it flies and the way
that it takes off in particularly lands
um is different than an F-16 or a C130
or any other traditional fix we military
aircraft um and so we certainly accept
v22 time uh ospry time is valid time you
are flying and it is part of your total
time package now I think where the
disconnect has come from is that V2 two
time does not count towards umpp
transition requirements so in our umpp
program guide it states that a pilot
must have at least a thousand hours of
fixed wi turb and time to be able to
transition from the military to United
at their separation date um and so if an
individual had 2 200 hours and a
thousand of that was in a v22 and then,
1500 hours of that was in another you
know C130 for example that individual
would be certainly well qualified and
they' have met that requirement now if a
had v20 all v22 time and no fix wi time
according to United standards uh that
person would not be eligible to
transition to United at that time so uh
it is valid time it counts towards your
total time but the only difference is
that it doesn't count towards the
Thousand hours of uh umpp transition
requirements you know I can probably dig
up the v22 pilots that flew over the
Super Bowl and they probably give you
guys a ride in the in the ploter if uh
you want to change the rules a little
I'm just saying very interested in that
yeah because I might I might have to
change my mind then gosh oh man all
right well uh women and aviation's
coming up it's right in your backyard
right are you guys doing anything from
my hometown that's right yeah we are
that's a really great question so uh we
are changing our approach a little bit
this year at women Aviation and we are
going to be doing uh meet and greets now
we recognize that at previous
conferences we've had a tremendous line
and quite frankly I don't mind having a
really long line B you know it means
that people are interested they want to
come to United um but we also want to
make sure that everyone has a really
good experience uh whether they're
talking to United or another airline at
women Aviation so we're doing a couple
different things uh we have a meet and
greet room uh in which you can pilot any
pilot that's qualified can come in they
can uh sit with a recruiter go over
their resume go over their application
and share their experiences with that
recruiter um and then they also can go
to the booth and they can chat with a
couple United Folks at the booth as well
the main meet of the conference though
for us is going to be at those meet and
greet rooms and you cannot sign up for
the meet and greets beforehand you can
be able to use a an iPad that we'll have
at the meet and greet room and at the
booth as well in which you can sign up
for a virtual queue so there's no
pre-registrations but you'll be able to
sign up uh for those meet and greets on
a first come first serve basis what's
cool about this virtual Q to is that you
can see where your placement is on that
on that list you can you sign up then
you can go enjoy the rest of the
conference and then when your name is
called you have head back to the meet
and greet room as well so uh we're
trying to make it a much more candidate
friendly experience uh and and give all
the pilots that are coming to women in
aviation um a really truly great you
know experience get to speak with their
recruiter share their experience and
also make sure that they um they they're
not waiting in line for for the entire
time yeah you know it's a funny as a
person who has stood in all the lines
right it's a funny thing because that
first off I love that because you don't
have to sit there and wait for for an
hour two hours two and a half hours to
just see a person but also the per the
people plus and minus three or four that
you're S standing next to like they end
up becoming lifelong friends because you
spent so much time together so so
hopefully everybody else still looks out
to uh try to find some excellent friends
are you guys also going to go to tpn the
following
month uh so this year we are not going
to tpn in April but we will be going to
Papa in June okay great awesome uh could
you explain what happened to those in
the umpp that who were six months out
from their availability date uh when the
switch to uh one-year H um requirement
happened right can they reapply with a
new date if they received a now
selectable for umpp
email great question yes and we had
recently changed our requirement from
having at least 6 months of availabil
left in the military to apply to now a
12 month window and the reason for that
quite frankly was that we are full for
2025 at least from the umpp standpoint
and so we are considering individuals uh
with 2026 availability now if you are a
military pilot with 2025 availability we
still very much encourage you to switch
your application to a traditional
application and apply and go through our
process on the traditional side because
we still have a ton of room on the
traditional side for military and
civilian Pilots as well um and so that's
kind of what we're looking at right now
just because your your your separation
date is now greater than or less than
that that 12-month window uh you should
certainly reapply you're not blacklisted
you're not you know unable to submit
your application we just want to
encourage you to change it to a
traditional application there as well if
your availability date changes and is
now outside of that 12 month or it's now
12 months or greater you can keep your
umpp application just make sure that you
update your availability to reflect what
that new availability date would be
perfect all right uh how about this I
recently made a lateral move from one
Regional to another for quality of life
reasons is there a good way to notate
this on the application to avoid getting
passed over boy I understand that one
for sure yeah that's a great question
and you know this is United uh while I
love working here this is not my first
Airline I worked another airline before
coming here so um I understand the need
for quality of life changes and my
recommendation is just be honest in your
application we have recruiters who have
done the same thing we've had pilots on
our interview team who've also made
those switches as well so um simply
putting saying I led working for this
outline it was great but I want some
quality of life uh improvements and
that's why I switched here we'd be we'd
be very open to that as well I would
also tell that pilot to make sure that's
the reason why
because there there I have I have had
the sad opportunity to to have
conversations with people who have left
an airline for one not great reason or
another and what you said in your answer
is honesty is the most important part of
this and absolutely you have to be
honest because you will like if when you
get found out it's over and Lord of
Mercy yeah those those are probably the
the more difficult conversations I have
to have in my uh in my role and and we
don't like to have them so being open
honest and just being uh straight up on
your application is the best thing you
can do for yourself yeah absolutely I
think that's I think that's so important
uh okay how about this one as a high
time fo flying 80 plus hours a month for
regional should I upgrade to sit on
reserve as Captain and not get any
flying or continue to build my total
time as a first officer I'm just over
3,000 hours of Total time o good luck
with that one that is a oh that's a real
tough one I would probably say to
upgrade um our typical Philosophy for
anyone that wants to to United is and
they ask how do I get to United the
quickest the two things we tell them is
fly as much as you possibly can and take
the first available upgrade um so having
pic time particularly in a 121
environment makes you extremely
competitive um whether at a you know a
ulcc or Regional that Captain time is
just so valuable and so I think I'm
going to stick with our our normal
feedback and just say take the first
available upgrade that you can then you
got to figure out other ways to start
differentiating yourself if you're
sitting on reserve too that's tricky
right yeah yeah all right I like also
like passing a 121 Captain upgrade
training
really says a lot about your capability
and the and the probability that you
will crush training at United like that
I think is a big deal yeah it will
certainly prepare you very well for
training here at United and when I think
about it too I know a lot of individuals
don't want to take a captain upgrade for
quality of life reasons or their based
in you know Denver but they if they be
take a captain upgrade they're going to
be based in lorum which is really tough
and it's a tough commute but my
recommendation is even with that tough
commute I would still take the the
upgrade I would still go to lorum I
would do that because that time was just
so much more valuable to United and in
really any other major as well yeah hope
like whoever whoever's asking
that have your spouse watch this replay
on YouTube as well because that is that
our conversations when Anna and I were
going through this and trying to get to
anywhere that would talk to me uh you
know it was just we are sacrifi we are
sacrificing our quality of life right
now for the opportunity for greater
quality of life later and hard it's
hard man but hard and that's what I
recommend is that we see so many great
pilots who are you know working so hard
right now at the Regionals or in the
military sacrificing that quality of
life to be able to come to a place like
United Airlines uh so when they can get
here they can have a much more
comfortable quality of life and and I
think that speaks volume to their you
know their flying experience and their
character as well yeah for sure I'm I'm
with you person that asked that all
right how about here's another one I've
got an interview in two weeks in Denver
congrats is there anything commonly
overlooked by Apple that hurts them
during the interview process start your
list Justin ready go oh my there's so
many things no I'm just kidding okay uh
so I think the first thing is that we
actually do send out a study guide once
you have scheduled yourself for an
interview date you get sent a study
guide that lists everything you to
possibly know about the interview here
at United so one thing that's very
overlooked is that candidates do not
read that study guide um they don't
understand what's being asked they don't
come prepared um so it's just really
important that you study that you bring
everything that you're asked to bring um
because that's what's going to make you
most
successful um I think secondly as well
is that we have seen at times issues
with incomplete log books or log books
that are are missing certain things
obviously we understand there are not
not every pilot has all their log books
or you know they might have been a fire
or whatever and if you need to you need
to bring their correct documentation we
recommend you bring the correct
documentation but um really just read
the study guide it's there for you we've
we've created it so you have a
successful and enjoyable experience here
in Denver and just and just make sure
you you read every part of it and bring
everything you need to bring I had a guy
once whose ex-wife burned his log books
and he God bless him and he had a police
report in hand and because of that and
brought a baggie Ash yeah we if we would
we would be more than willing to accept
that yeah yeah um
also let me harp on this I know this is
me asking you questions but I would like
to toss this up if you have if you are
going down that path and there's your
log book like first off you've got to
like that log book is your dissertation
you've got to every tenth of an hour has
to be perfectly figured out and every
page signed and all the things also if
there's a gap if there's a question if
there's anything like your I will not
speak I will speak for you your team
will answer an email you guys will
respond but but bring like don't come
unprepared don't come and just hope for
it because that that's millions of
dollars you've blown right it's a huge
opportunity so I mean I don't know if
you have anything else to say with that
yeah and and I mean if you have a
discrepancy in your log book or if you
have something that is unexplainable you
know those are the ones that we're going
to find first unfortunately um and so
you know just go through your log book
make sure you understand your experience
if there's anything that looks different
or funky or something that that that
doesn't make sense understand that we
will ask questions about that um and be
prepared to to explain those as well
that's right and wear a nice suit and
shave your face and shine your shoes and
start your shirt and
smile very much recommend that as well
yes that's right all right cool that's a
great one okay here we go oh that's a
good one too what is your hiring policy
on hiring a passport holder versus a
green card holder will preference be
given to the US Passport holders over
green card
holders that is a really good question
an extraordinarily Nuance um yeah we
treat US Passport holders and green card
holders equally uh US Passport holders
and green card holders have the ability
to inter exit the United States on a
regular basis the one thing I will say
though about green card holders is that
your pass your your country of
citizenship um is important so just
recognize that we fly to a lot of uh
complex destinations such as India
Israel um all over South America the
People's Republic of China the Republic
of China so depending upon your country
of citizenship that may mean that you
have issues entering some of our
destinations which could uh prohibit you
from uh becoming United Alli pilot until
you can find a way to enter all of our
destinations so um there is no
preference given to US Passport holders
or green card holders uh but you just
have to be cognizant of what your
country of citizenship is if you're a
green card holder I had a dear friend
who I flew with whose grandfather fought
in the Bay of Pigs against Castro and
that became an issue when he went to the
airlines because he couldn't go to Cuba
because there was still a warrant for
his like anybody in his lineage it was
chaos anyway that's crazy yeah yeah for
sure yes yeah and if there's any
questions about that too feel free to
email me and uh we've become quite the
immigration experts here so uh we're
happy to provide a list of all the
destinations that we that we we fly to
in kind of the Nuance to each one of
those passport holders as well yeah okay
cool that's great how about this is
United currently actively hiring or
hiring less from places like Sky West or
Republic um Republic has no flow but
flies as United
Express great questions we are actively
hiring from both those carriers um Sky
West we have a pathway program called
United pilot program at Sky West that we
are actively recruiting from but we're
also actively hiring Pilots
traditionally from Sky West as well
Republic is the same way but there is no
uh flow through program through Republic
uh but we were actively recruiting from
Republic I look we we have hired um I I
don't know the exact number we've we've
hired just in the last two months a good
handful of both Sky West and Republic
Pilots directly to United Airlines all
right all right that's good
jumping back to the umpp questions now
uh is
umpp availability dates into 20128 or
later or are there are you only looking
for 2026 availability dates we're
looking for 2026 and later in fact I
just saw an application from someone
that had a 2036 availability date maybe
2034 it it was it was in the 2030s uh so
maybe uh it'll take a little bit till we
get to that application uh but should
2026 to later yeah we'll look at him do
you know do you know the presedent you
would said if you brought that kid in
and gave him a CJ and he's so you know
he's an 03 just rolling in rolling in a
C5 like that would be
amazing that's what I'm talking we might
consider it yeah we we have no we have
no time limit on our military program so
potentially we could consider this
individual all right my man Connor is
listening who I just met today who's a
c177 pilot he's three years out and so
that's per we were just talking about
this today when he reached out to me so
he's probably on here tonight we are
doing interviews for individuals that
have 2026 2027 and I believe we've done
a handful of 2028 um availability date
interviews in the last couple of weeks
are you uh is it based are you bringing
the front front loading the earlier
dates is that how that you're bringing
them in yeah that's a really good
question and and technically not but we
do have to be cognizant of these Peaks
and valleys and hiring that we have now
that we didn't have in place um but we
are still have plenty of room uh in umpp
for every year past 2026 2026 and Beyond
I should say okay cool that's good these
are great questions y'all way to go
these are keep them coming okay here we
go uh I am an American but all of my
experiences overseas all part 121 mostly
on 73s 4,000 hours total time and an
aviation engineering experience flying
the panel is there a path for someone
like me at United or should I look at a
part 135
carrier really good question and we
definitely see a path for you here
United Airlines um we very much value
any type of like I said complex flying
experience and so we have seen a good
number of individuals who have flown
overseas um as contract Pilots or
they've flown for carriers like Emirates
or Etihad or Cutter um or Vietnam
airlands is one that I can think of
recently um so yeah I think any overseas
experience is is very much valued and
equal teing experience in United States
all right all right just got to be a US
citizen all those things cool and have
all your our destinations yeah yeah yeah
all of your fa licenses of course too
yes which is such a hassle Lord of Mercy
if we could just make things more
difficult with the FAA that would be
great um okay here's one about uh ngpa
at ngpa made it seem like traditional
hiring is not currently occurring can
you touch on that really good question
and uh traditional hiring uh slowed down
significantly particularly in the
December and January time frame and that
was because we had a very big pool of
candidates that were waiting class uh
from January through May um we never
stopped and we never turned off the
traditional SP but we did slow it down
in those months um because as I
mentioned for we have now slower hiring
volumes for the summer before we pick
way back up at the end of this year and
so because we're picking up at the end
of this year we are beginning to rurn on
that that trickle into a a really robust
uh flow of traditional candidates in the
next couple of months currently if if I
came in today and uh I didn't mess it up
and I got a cjo from interview to class
start date what are I know it changes
and everything and the next time we is
going to be different but what are you
at right
now really good question and in fact
last year we we found ourselves in a bit
of a situation based upon aircraft
delivery delays which uh lowered our our
hiring forecast for the year um and so
what ended up happening is that we had a
lot of individuals that were waiting in
the pool upwards of 11 months I think
the the longest I saw for anyone was 11
or 12 months from their interview to
their class date just based upon our our
limited number of available class slots
um we are actively working to to
decrease that number and I believe at
this point right now it is six months or
less and we're trying to aim for a two
to three month interview to class uh
turnaround man if it wasn't for those
Pratt and Whitney gtf engines and the
and the Boeing debacle this like can you
imagine how different this conversation
would be right now my life last year
would have been exceptionally different
different yeah listen man don't get me
started golly I wish we could just get
stuff
delivered all right here we go sorry
every now and then I just I lose it on
deliveries
where does United stand uh regarding
diversity at J ngpa all cjos were
awarded were uh there were no minority
Pilots as well as the last Delta class
had 50 was only had one minority pilot
uh among them what is what is United
especially with what's happening today
like what is the United's policy really
great question so first of all we didn't
do cgos at ngpa um and so uh I'm not
sure where that uh comment is coming
from because we didn't we didn't have
any cgos we didn't do interviews at ngpa
but I will Echo what our CEO says as
well and that you know as always to this
day as we were a year ago and two years
ago uh we have always committed to
hiring based upon Merit and
competitiveness um I do believe that is
important to to hire the best pilots and
that's what we've committed to be doing
so um you know I think the the the the
the pilot space you know is something
that is that is has a lot of visibility
and it's very important and we also we
want to make sure that we continue to do
the right thing which is the be hiring
you know based upon Merit amen awesome
love it all right as someone who has
failed Captain upgrade two years ago at
a regional I've successfully passed a
tri 7 typ
how does how do check R failures factor
into being selected for an
interview excellent question and again
thank you Tommy for that as well so
check ride failures are a part of your
trading story right an individual uh at
least at this point most people have one
or you know two check R failures and so
if we said you can't have any check ride
failures interview at United Airlines
we'd be really limiting the number of
available Pilots that can interview with
us um and so we treat each check ride uh
separately and we review each single
every single one of them and we make
sure that we we understand the situation
that occurred there um we certainly have
plenty of individuals on property here
today who have failed a check ride
before whether it be in their primary
Flight Training or at another 121
carrier um as I mentioned before too on
on previous conversations is that I very
much view this like a credit report
right the the type of check R failure
and the recency of that check R failure
are going to impact that application
right so if you failed Captain upgrade
last month that's going to have a pretty
big impact on your application but if
you failed two years ago and it's your
only check R failure the impact is going
to be minimal at past good good good
good excellent all right so I'm
currently a captain at Sky West I've
submitted my application at United and
have updated my resume monthly
unfortunately I've not heard anything
back yet is there someone I could reach
out to for an update or should I just
stand by and
wait great question and I always say our
email boox is open for anyone to email
that's pilot recruiting united.com if
you have a question or if you like an
update on your application I highly
encourage you to send an email there as
well um like I said traditional hiring
has been uh slow over the last couple of
months um and that's just a function of
our lower class numbers and so it may be
a while until you hear something back
from us on your application itself but
if you have any questions you're
certainly encouraged to to send us an
email okay um back with when we were
talking about um umpp and av8 and
traditional hiring I guess it was break
we got cut off for a quick second can
you tell me the ratio between umpp AV
and
traditional yeah so as I mentioned it it
changes every single month and so we
have seen some months in which we've
seen 50% uh umpp uh and then we've seen
other months where it's you know 15%
umpp so I can't give you the I don't
know the average honestly off the top of
my head right now but it it fluctuates
between probably 10 to 15% umpp um
probably 10 to 30% aviate and then the
rest traditional um but again those are
all very fluid
numbers all right cool thank you and how
about this I was furloughed from Spirit
I'm currently at Horizon how does it
look to the hiring committee as someone
that was at a ulcc and then went to a
regional due to Furlow kind of a step
down right so is there anything that is
hurting my chances to get
hired absolutely not and I would say
actually going to Horizon and continue
to fly does not hurt your uh application
in fact it it greatly helps it right
you're continue to get that currency
you're continue to demonstrate
competence in your flying career um and
so that is that's probably probably the
best thing that you could have done to
be honest with you okay how about this
question then if I'm furloughed from
from Spirit is that a black mark on my
application is there am I am I not going
to get called in because I have recall
rights absolutely not in fact we have an
agreement with Alpa in the united pilot
agreement it's a provision called 21r
and it states that any Furlow uh pilot
from another Alpa carrier gets priority
review for any open positions at United
Airlines and so uh any Spirit Pilots we
have been able to give them priority
review and review their applications uh
here United it is not a black eye at all
and in fact um we we give you priority
over others all right that's good thank
you for saying that out loud yeah the
how about a degree right I know it's not
required but what kind of if my kids are
getting ready to go through this we're
gonna have we're gon to have flight time
flight school world if they want to fly
and we'll have education world like like
regular style education like is there
still value in that or is there do I
still have a chance to uh not get hired
was this created just for Warrant
officers to be able to you know the
military people and and prior enlisted
that don't have a traditional degree
where do you guys
stand that's a really good question and
this was a actual requirement to have at
least a bachelor's degree or hire to be
hired at United Airlines uh in years
past uh however that requirement has
since changed and it is now a preferred
qualification rather than a required
qualification and so a degree I think is
always going to be valuable um but it's
certainly not required and we will still
consider you uh if you do not have a
bachelor's degree or or greater okay can
you talk to the weight of failing a
military pilot training phase check that
is not a legal check
right uh phase checks we do not uh count
against anyone's application so if it
was a phas check it would be something
that does not need need to be disclosed
okay awesome and what are competitive
mins for military Pilots ver in the
traditional application
pool o uh again really good question and
it really just depends on the complexity
of your flying experience as I mentioned
before we've had some incredibly
well-qualified
151h hour you know fighter pilots that
have come to United Airlines and they
are performing extremely well here um
we've had other individuals that are you
know transport or KC aircraft uh Pilots
who have come here with 2,000 3,000
hours as well who are also incredibly
well competitive as well so um I think
it again just depends on the type of
flying you've been flying um as well as
how you can differentiate yourself
against those other uh military Pilots
as well okay well we're just about done
so you ready for the last question
please yeah all
right if you were going to go
interview with your team tomorrow
what would you do to prepare and what
would you do to make sure that you were
successful really good question I think
the first couple things that I would do
to prepare is just to make sure that I
have a lot of really solid stories um
we've recently changed our interview
guide and so every single interview
guide that a candidate gets is going to
be unique no two interview guides are
the same um but what that means is that
I would just come in with with with five
or six just really strong stories that
can fit into most of the responses
needed for for any of those questions
right so come prepared with a lot of
just really good uh responses
particularly hopefully about your flying
experience uh that will make you
hopefully a successful candidate um
secondly I would say I would read that
study guide religiously and ensure that
you understand what's going to be asked
of you um like what I'm sharing today
these are not you know Secrets these are
all published in the in the study guide
uh so make sure you study that make sure
you like I said understand what is going
to happen the following day and get
ready for that as well um and then
finally uh as we mentioned before the
interview is divided into two parts
right so the first part is a
behavioral-based interview in which
you're answering those tell by time when
questions that you should be prepared
for and then the second part is your
Technical and again the technical is
going to be very unique based upon each
candidate's experience as well as uh you
know uh the pilot that's also conducting
it as well and so i' come in prepared
I'd understand you know some of our
United um uh policies and processes but
but speak to that technical as you would
fly yourself as a pilot right don't try
and fly that technical as a United pilot
filot as you yourself are going to fly
that that that technical as well so
those are a couple things that I
probably would do uh to to prepare and
to make sure that you have a really
successful experience here in Denver man
that's awesome well hopefully these 1500
Pilots that are here are going to soon
be in Denver and standing in front of
you that's so exciting Justin thank
thank you so much for coming on thank
you for speaking to the pilot the fact
that you'll do this and come and reach
out and spend your afternoon with us we
just we really appreciate on behalf of
all 1500 of us thank you for being an
advocate thank you for being a friend
and and just doing all the things that
you do to make this less scary than it
really is absolutely no this has been
such a pleasure I always love talking
with you um you know I love United
Airlines I love working here so being
able to talk uh about this company and
and the things that we're doing here is
very easy for me and I do encourage all
everyone that's on this call today
please make sure your application
submitted please make sure you update it
at least every month and I look forward
to seeing um whoever is going to be at
women Aviation uh here in Denver in a
couple weeks all right well that's it
for Justin Ritter folks he is heading
out I'm really really really thankful
yall joined us today it's been a great
conversation we went we covered a lot of
ground I'm really you guys had great
questions
so a couple things first is if you have
learned a lot today and you know like
you heard Justin say hey I need you to
have five or six really solid stories
that means you need to join our
community so up on the screen is going
to come up um the discount code like you
see cleared for the number four hire 15
you got until tomorrow at midnight to be
able to uh join our team 15% discount on
whatever you guys want really really
helpful for you um I'm excited to uh get
to know you I'm excited for you to join
our community so hit us up we're happy
to do it and the last thing I will say
is webinars webinars webinars webinars
our webinar series is hot and it is
great Jason is going on tonight at 800
pm and Eastern time and it is going to
be great information we're the series
that we do we bring our coaches out we
answer questions there's always a top IC
at hand it's preparing you for the next
conference and so you need to sign up
for our um Spitfire email you can do
that at Spitfire elite.com
and you will be able to get uh alerts on
when we're doing more webinars they're
always free they're always fun um great
chance for you to just ask the questions
that you want to ask without having to
you know be vulnerable about it this is
a great opportunity great learning
experience for you
um so that's it I appreciate you guys
coming out the ready for push back
podcast the Spitfire team like we are
here for you we are absolutely on board
and hopefully you have a better idea of
why it's awesome at
United I appreciate you guys I hope you
had fun and I hope that you are able to
land that dream job see
you all right Pilots That's a Wrap on
this episode and I know what you're
thinking you need to make yourself a
little bit better so how do you make
yourself a little bit better you tighten
up your resume so here's what I want you
to do go over to my website Spitfire
elite.com
podcast and you can download my free
resumé template it is tight organized
and it's the perfect pilot resume it's
just something I like to do for the
pilot group and it is free to you so go
over there Spitfire elite.com
and download your free resumé template
while you're over there look at all the
services that we offer lots of great
interview prep lots of great application
review everything you need to be your
professional pilot is right there
Spitfire elite.com slmp podcast thanks
and I'll see you on the next episode